<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>Emily Dickinson &amp; Ellipsis</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="dickinson-simple.css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Bitter%7COpen+Sans" />
        <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpeg" href="dickinson-portrait.jpeg" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="website-header-and-navbar.html" -->
        <h1 style="text-align:center;">Our findings on...</h1>
        <div class="text-content">
            <div class="text-box">
                <h3>Ellipsis</h3>
                <p>Our results clearly show that Dickinson writes with ellipsis more often than not.
                    68/90 poems in our corpus (~75.5%) contained at least one instance of ellipsis.
                    The type of ellipsis occurring the most in our corpus was clausal, possibly
                    because we decided to include clausal connectors, such as individual
                    conjunctions and prepositions, in the clausal category. If the clausal type was
                    separated by elided material into subcategories, such as clausal verbal, clausal
                    nominal, or clausal other, it would be easier to see exactly what is going on
                    within the clausal type, thereby allowing for visual distinctions between true
                    clausal ellipsis and ellipsis of clausal connectors.</p>

                <p>Instances of verbal and nominal ellipsis are almost equal within the corpus, a
                    surprising result being that nominal subjects typically have to be explicit in
                    English, especially within forms of written English. Constructions with ommitted
                    subjects (falling into the nominal ellipsis category) are usually ungrammatical
                    to the point of losing intended meaning, yet the meaning can still be generally
                    understood in the poems comprising our corpus.</p>

            </div>

            <div class="text-box">
                <h3>Imagery</h3>
                <p>Through our analysis, we found that themes of nature, religion, emotion, and
                    death were most prevalent in our corpus. This outcome confirmed our hypothesis
                    that Dickinson wrote most frequently on these themes and also aligns with her
                    reputation as a poet. We also discovered much more nuance in imagery than we
                    originally expected because even within poems, themes did not fit within
                    discrete categories. Some imagery was literal and some was metaphorical, and
                    depending on the reader's interpretation, the classification of each poem by
                    theme could differ.</p>

                <p>We were not expecting the count of themes such as "the mind" and "solitude" to be
                    as low as it was in our corpus. We assumed that because Dickinson had a
                    reputation for being a solitary individual, separated from the going-ons of
                    larger society, she would write more about her solitary experience and her own
                    intellectual pursuits. We also expected the theme of writing to appear more
                    across the corpus than it did because Emily Dickinson strongly embraced her
                    identity as a writer. Additionally, in the poems where writing was mentioned, it
                    was always described as a noble and challenging pursuit.</p>
            </div>

            <div class="text-box">
                <h3>Correlations between our data</h3>
                <p>Neither independent variable (year written and presence of recipient) seemed to
                    dictate the presence of ellipsis in the poems of our corpus. Ellipsis, whether
                    present or not, appeared (or did not appear) consistently throughout the three
                    time periods to an almost equal degree. From this, we can start to conclude that
                    Dickinson's employment of ellipsis was a natural style rather than something that was
                    cultivated or strengthened over the span of her active writing years.</p>

                <p>There was no apparent correlation between presence of ellipsis and presence of a
                    recipient. In our corpus, the 3 categories of ellipsis presence were essentially
                    equal no matter if there was a recipient or not. It could possibly be that
                    Dickinson's poems were never originally intended for a specific recipient, that
                    Dickinson did not alter her style depending on audience, or that she did not
                    believe ellipsis would impede a recipient's understanding of the poem's message.
                    Either way, this outcome was contrary to our intital expectations, as we
                    believed poems with recipients would exhibit clearer, less elliptial language so
                    that a poem's message would be clear to its intended reader.</p>

                <p>There was no true correlation between presence of ellipsis and theme of poem
                    other than the frequency at which a certain theme or value of ellipsis presence
                    appeared across the corpus. The count for 'yes' ellipsis and nature-themed poems
                    was considerably higher than all other variations of theme and value of ellipsis
                    presence simply because nature was such a prominent theme across the poems of
                    our corpus.</p>

            </div>

            <h1 style="text-align:center;">Lastly...</h1>

            <div class="text-box">
                <h3>Some closing thoughts</h3>
                <p>Through our analysis, we gathered further proof that Emily Dickinson indeed consistently
                    wrote with a highly elliptical style and that even within the bounds of
                    ellipsis, she was more unconventional in her employment of it. Instead of making
                    sentence constructions more concise by removing redundancy, Emily Dickinson's
                    employment of ellipsis further obscures the meanings of sentences and poems as a
                    whole regardless of who she was writing to or what she was writing about.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
